# IESO Data Pipeline Project for Price Forecasting
This project creates an end-to-end data pipeline to fetch data from various reports, store it in a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) database, build a dashboard, and develop a machine learning model for price forecasting.
## Data Extraction
We use Python, along with libraries such as pandas and BeautifulSoup, to scrape data from various report links. The scraped data is stored in dataframes and then loaded into Google Cloud Storage buckets. This data is then transferred to BigQuery tables for efficient processing. The data extraction process is automated with a Cronjob/Google Cloud Scheduler.
## Forecasting Using Machine Learning
We build and run various machine learning models in GCP’s BigQuery to predict future fuel/energy prices. We tested LSTM univariate/multivariate, GRU for time series problems, and ANN Regressor, Random Forests regression for regression problems. The ANN regression model provided the best results for our use case.
## Data Visualization Report
After modeling, we generate a data visualization report on Google Data Studio for further insights. The report includes a pie chart about the distribution of fuel generated by each fuel type, a stacked column chart about the distribution of fuel generated each month, and a time series visualization of fuel generation during each quarter of the year.
## Manual Configuration
Instructions for accessing and configuring Google BigQuery, Google Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Functions, and Google Cloud Scheduler are provided in the following sections.
## Google Cloud Services Used
- [Google BigQuery Dashboard](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery)
- [Google Cloud Storage Buckets](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser)
- [Google Cloud Functions](https://console.cloud.google.com/functions/list)
- [Google Cloud Scheduler](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudscheduler)
